# Interstitial 1 Reflection

1. What is the main message of this module?
My main takeaway from the first Module of the course has been to welcome making mistakes and to just have fun with history, and these two go hand in hand. It's important to make mistakes in order to learn, especially in digital history, and it's important to welcome those learning experiences and not to stress about making the mistakes that lead to learning. A second takeaway from the module is the now iconic phrase: "If it doesn't come in thirty minutes, it won't come in three hours!!!" (Graham 2022)

2. What themes connect the various lectures/presentations/activities in module 1?
The three themes that I observed in class material just aot every week were: The messiness of digital work and history; The nearly infinite possibilities in digital work; Digital work's divergence from what is generally deemed to be traditional.
The messiness of digital work was most evident to me in the activities. I failed on all of them multiple times before they came out functional. The website I made with Mural took four attempts until the code actually ran, and my GitHub repos became a graveyard of those failed attempts as a result. This messiness was also mentioned a lot in the lectures, and it's the reason Professor Graham has his iconic catchphrase now. Digital work has to go wrong before it goes right, and while it's frustrating as all hell, it's a key part of the experience, and in the end, the satisfaction of creating digital work.
The infinite possibilities of digital work was something I'd been aware of prior to the course, but its impressive nature has repeatedly left me awstruck as we've looked at so many examples of digital historical work. Whether it be a class of students creating a historical hoax about America's last pirate (Kelly 2014), creating a twitter bot to remind people every 3 minutes just how unimaginable the scale of the American slave trade was in a viscerally concise package (@Every3Minutes), or the use of sound, movement, and tone to bridge the gap between past and present in a museum exhibit (Evans 2018), digital history can evoke vastly different but strong emotions and allow people to interact with history in a way they'd never done before, contrasting starkly with traditional academic articles.
This links nicely with the last point, which is that digital work strays from traditional approaches, and this is the exact reason it's so valuable, as it allows us to interact with history in completely new ways, just as writing is a valuable tool for interacting with history, so too are the methods that digital work unlocks. Digital work is also about questioning the norms and decidedly going against the grain to uncover these new valuable methods of historical work and presentation. At the same time, while the methods differ from the traditional, the products don't necessarily do the same, as the week on game development made abundantly clear.

3. How does Belanger’s vision of what a game is, affect or intersect with the ideas we’ve discussed with regard to ‘storytelling’?
The definition of a game that I most connected with was that it's an "interactive experience". I like this because of its acknowledgement of the "experience" itself, almost like its something you're guided through, in a sense. Along these lines, it makes sense that the game designers have real narrative power, which is where politics become clear in games. One of the most interesting parts of the course so far, for me, were the reading and discussions regarding politics in videogames, specifically regarding the cis white straight male protagonist with imperialist goals. The class discussion mentioned titles ranging from the Uncharted series to Call of Duty and in all of them, the white male protagonist becomes almost omnipresent and is the "comfortable norm", as though having any other individual in that role would be abnormal and a "political" decision by the game manufacturer. I really liked this discussion specifically because it got the entire class to think critically about games we've played and enjoyed and reflect about our own internalized acceptance of the white male imperial protagonist. It was quite a personal experience, in all honesty, and I went back and played Uncharted 4 afterward to see how it changed the experience. While it didn't spoil the fun or the thrill of it, I was far more aware of very political but subtle decisions made by the developers, such as the fight to beat one male "villain" being more challenging than fighting a far more important female "villain". It didn't take longer, but Nathan Drake, the protagonist, was consistently on the offensive and thinking things through, whereas the far less important male villain got caught him off guard and forced quick thinking and mistakes. This is all to say that storytelling in gameplay is often far more subtle than in literature, for instance, but that it can be internalized more easily (and unknowingly) due to the interactive nature of gameplay, which gives developers huge power and responsibility.

4. What is the one most surprising thing about this module that has changed how you think about how we ‘do’ history?
I think the biggest change has just been in my mindset when "doing" history; that it doesn't need to be presented in a highly academic manner to be valuable, and that doing historical work (and consuming it) can be far more effective and impactful when it is playful. The best example of such came in our very first class. I loved the first activity we did on Vampire or Alien. By getting students to name historical figures (so literally anyone) and then giving two boxes to slot them into, professor Graham got students to reflect on those figures and to get creative in quickly analyzing them and reasoning why they should got in one box, the other, or in both. I was actually pretty proud in my reasoning behind slotting Marie Antoinette into the Vampire category (since decapitation does indeed kill vampires). This was a perfect introduction to the value of playfully engaging with history and got me very excited for the course.

5. How does it connect with your ideas for your Unessay?
I'm mainly excited to present hisotrical research in a manner I never have before and to make it an engaging experience. I also want this process to help me internalize the idea that playfulness and games in no way correlate to not taking the research or the work seriously, but rather offer a different way of presenting it to get people to interact with hisotry in a different way and perhaps reflect on things they hadn't reflected on before. I'm also ready for lots and lots of ups and downs in this process. I'm new to digital work and I'm sure something will go awry even in the submission of this interstitial work, but I'm learning, and that's what I'm in university for! Lastly, I'm looking forward to getting creative with the Unessay work. I really want to push myself, not just in the digital output, but the intellectual input too. The presentation of the research will be completely out of my comfort zone, so I want to push the research process in the same direction by looking in places I wouldn't have previously considered. I might even head to the National Archives (which would be a fun juxtaposition to the digital output). 
